a nucleus in the nucleus or some things
called protons
something's called neutrons and outside
or something called electrons that's all
the atomic structure we need then we say
certain entities have a property called
electric charge the symbol for electric
charge is Q and you can put a subscript
to say who you're talking about so you
can say Q for the neutron is zero a Q
for the electron is minus one point six
times ten to the minus nineteen and it's
measured in coulombs the Q for the
proton is really let me put it this way
Q for the proton is a positive number so
it's really that these minus signs
cancel now the importance of the Coulomb
is that if anything has some coulombs on
it it will interact with anything else
that has some coulombs on it so that if
you have two entities and this one has a
charge of Q one coulombs that man has a
charge of Q two coulombs and the
distance between them is R then the
force is Q 1 Q 2 over 4 PI epsilon zero
R square I'm purposely not putting all
the vector signs on F because it takes
too long but you all know what the
answer is namely if you want the force
on two you're the one will be repulsive
if Q 1 and Q 2 are of the same sign and
point in the direction joining them yep
yes thank you there is another force
lock which is R squared not so famous
called Hookes law but you're absolutely
right that's the difference between
being Newton and being hook hook is
known for the R square law Newton's
known for the one over R square law